=head1 NAME

as370 - host-native MVS assembler (IBM Assembler-XF / IFOX00 clone)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<as370> [I<options>] I<file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<as370> assembles System/370 HLASM source into an OS/360 object deck (80-byte
EBCDIC ESD/TXT/RLD/END card images) on the host. It is a single-file
reimplementation of IBM's Assembler-XF (B<IFOX00>): macro preprocessor, two-pass
core and object writer, producing decks B<byte-identical to IFOX00> over the
mvslovers ecosystem corpus.

It is invoked automatically by L<cc370(1)> to assemble the compiler's output, and
can also be run standalone on hand-written F<.s>/F<.asm> source.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-o> I<objfile>

Write the object deck to I<objfile> (binary).

=item B<-I> I<dir>

Add a macro-library directory to the search list (repeatable).

=item B<-a>[I<sub-options>]

Produce a listing. Sub-options include B<e> (external symbol dictionary) and
B<r> (relocation dictionary); B<=>I<FILE> writes the listing to I<FILE> (must be
the last sub-option). Other sub-options (g/i/m/s/x) are accepted but not yet
produced.

=item B<-v>

Print the assembler version.

=item B<--help>

Show usage and exit.

=back

=head1 MACRO SEARCH ORDER

Highest priority first:

=over 4

=item 1.

The B<-I> directories.

=item 2.

C<$AS370_MACLIB> --- a colon-separated override.

=item 3.

A built-in relocatable default F<< <exedir>/../macros >>. For an installed
as370 (in F<I<prefix>/bin>) this resolves to F<I<prefix>/macros>, the macro
library installed by B<libc370>, so as370 assembles with no B<-I> and no
environment.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

Follows IFOX C<JERMSGCD>: B<0> clean, B<4> warning, B<8> error, B<12> severe,
B<16> terminal. Silent on success.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cc370(1)>, L<ld370(1)>, L<ar370(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

The mvslovers community L<https://github.com/mvslovers/cc370>.

=cut
