=head1 NAME

cc370 - C cross-compiler driver for MVS 3.8j (System/370)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cc370> [I<options>] I<file>...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cc370> is the driver of a host-native cross-toolchain that compiles C to IBM
System/370 code for MVS 3.8j (TK4-, TK5, MVS/CE). It runs on the host
(macOS / Linux) and orchestrates the compiler proper (F<cc1>), the assembler
(L<as370(1)>) and the linker (L<ld370(1)>), so the only artifact that reaches the
mainframe is the finished load module.

It is a fork of GCC 3.4.6 for the C<cc370> target (an alias for the
C<i370-ibm-mvspdp> backend) and accepts the usual GCC-style options. B<-S> /
B<-c> set how far the pipeline runs, as in any GCC driver; by default it links a
finished MVS load-module member. B<-flinker-output=>I<type> additionally emits a
host-to-MVS transport wrapper beside the member:

=over 4

=item *

B<-S> --- stop after compiling to System/370 HLASM assembler (F<.s>).

=item *

B<-c> --- compile and assemble to an OS/360 object deck (F<.o>).

=item *

default --- compile, assemble and link to an MVS load-module member, named by
B<-o> (conventionally F<.lm>).

=item *

B<-flinker-output=xmit> --- also package the member as a TSO TRANSMIT (NETDATA,
RECFM=FB80) file I<out>F<.xmit>, ready to upload and install on MVS with
C<RECV370>; B<-flinker-output=iebcopy> instead writes the IEBCOPY unloaded-PDS
image I<out>F<.iebcopy> (e.g. to pack into a multi-member library with
L<ld370(1)> B<--pack>).

=back

The C library it links against is B<libc370>, found in the toolchain sysroot
with no B<-I>, B<-L> or B<-lc> needed.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-S>

Compile only; emit assembler (F<.s>).

=item B<-c>

Compile and assemble only; emit an object deck (F<.o>).

=item B<-o> I<file>

Place output in I<file>. With a default (link) run this is the load-module
member, and its basename also becomes the MVS member name.

=item B<-flinker-output=>{B<xmit>|B<iebcopy>}

Additionally emit a host-to-MVS transport wrapper beside the load-module member:
B<xmit> (TSO TRANSMIT, I<out>F<.xmit>) installs with C<RECV370>; B<iebcopy>
(unloaded PDS, I<out>F<.iebcopy>) is self-describing and can be packed into a
library with L<ld370(1)> B<--pack>.

=item B<-O1>

Optimization level. B<Only -O1 is supported.> B<-O2>, B<-Os> and B<-O3> are
unsafe on this backend (dead-code elimination drops address-held static tables,
and B<-Os> miscompiles loops); B<-O1> is validated correct.

=item B<-I> I<dir>, B<-L> I<dir>, B<-l> I<name>

Add a header search directory, a library search directory, or link a library
--- as in any GCC driver.

=item B<-dumpmachine>, B<-dumpversion>, B<-v>, B<--version>

Print the target (C<cc370>), the product version, or driver/version banners.

=back

All other standard GCC driver options are accepted.

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<I<prefix>/libexec/cc370/1.0.0/cc1>

The compiler proper (driver-private).

=item F<I<prefix>/cc370/{include,lib}>

The libc370 sysroot (headers, F<libc.a>, startfiles).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<as370(1)>, L<ld370(1)>, L<ar370(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

The mvslovers community L<https://github.com/mvslovers/cc370>.

=cut
