=head1 NAME

ld370 - host-native MVS linker (IEWL replacement) + host-to-MVS transport

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ld370> [B<-v>] B<-o> I<out> [B<-L> I<dir> B<-l> I<name>] [B<--include> I<name>]
[B<--entry> I<name>] [B<-xmit>] [B<-iebcopy>] [B<--dsn> I<ds>] [B<--name> I<n>] [B<--blocksize> I<n>]
[B<--ac> I<n>] [B<--norent>] [B<--noreus>] I<obj>...

B<ld370> B<--pack> I<member> [I<member> ...] B<-o> I<out> [B<-xmit>] [B<-iebcopy>] [B<--dsn> I<ds>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ld370> links one or more OS/360 object decks into an MVS load module on the
host, replacing the mainframe linkage editor (B<IEWL>); the member it produces is
byte-identical to IEWL's. It performs automatic library call against B<.a>
archives (see L<ar370(1)>), and can additionally wrap the result for transport to
MVS: an IEBCOPY unloaded-PDS image (B<-iebcopy>) and a TSO TRANSMIT / NETDATA file
(B<-xmit>, RECFM=FB80) that uploads cleanly and installs with C<RECV370>.

It is invoked automatically by L<cc370(1)> for the link/transport stages.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-o> I<out>

The load-module member to write (defaults to F<a.out>). This member is always
written; the transport wrappers below are B<additive> and never replace it.

=item B<-e>, B<--entry> I<name>

Set the module entry point.

=item B<-l> I<name>, B<-L> I<dir>

Auto-call the archive C<lib>I<name>C<.a>, searching directory I<dir>. Unresolved
strong external references fail the link unless B<--allow-unresolved> is given.

=item B<--include> I<name>

Force-include an archive member even if nothing references it.

=item B<-iebcopy>

Also write the IEBCOPY unloaded-PDS image to I<out>F<.iebcopy>.

=item B<-xmit>

Also write a TSO TRANSMIT (NETDATA) file to I<out>F<.xmit>.

=item B<--dsn> I<ds>

Name the target dataset recorded in the XMIT (default F<IBMUSER.HOST.LOAD>).

=item B<--name> I<n>

Set the PDS member name (otherwise derived from I<out>'s basename).

=item B<--blocksize> I<n>

Set the target load-library B<BLKSIZE> (default B<15040>, the de-facto LINKLIB
blocksize on MVS 3.8j). It drives the text-record split limit, the unloaded-form
blocksize, the COPYR1 C<UBLKSIZE> and the INMR02 C<INMBLKSZ>, so a member built at
I<n> installs into any LINKLIB whose BLKSIZE is E<gt>= I<n>. The default 15040 fits
both 15040 and 19069 libraries; the old fixed 19069 fit only a fresh E<gt>=19069
library. Use B<6144> for a small or older device, B<19069> for a 3350-full-track
library. B<Use the same value when building a module and when> B<--pack>-ing it:
B<--pack> does not re-split, so packing a member built at a larger blocksize while
declaring a smaller one is refused (the oversized blocks would not fit the target).
Range 1024..32740.

=item B<--ac> I<n>

Set the APF authorization code (C<SETCODE AC(>I<n>C<)>) in the PDS2 directory
entry. Default 0. Applied to the freshly linked module; a B<--pack> of a
B<-iebcopy> member keeps that member's own AC.

=item B<--norent>, B<--noreus>

Clear the reentrant / reusable attributes (C<PDS2ATR1>) that the link otherwise
marks on every module. B<--norent> clears B<RENT>, B<--noreus> clears B<REUS>.
RENT implies REUS, so B<--norent> alone leaves a serially-reusable (not reentrant)
module; pass both for a module that cannot be reused at all. Use this for a module
with modifiable storage that must not be marked reentrant. Like B<--ac>, the flags
apply to the module being linked; a B<--pack> of a B<-iebcopy> member keeps that
member's own attributes (set when it was built), so per-member attributes mix in
one library.

=item B<--pack> I<member> [I<member> ...]

Pack one or more B<pre-built> members into the transport image(s)
I<out>F<.xmit> / I<out>F<.iebcopy> without linking --- one member, or several to
build a multi-member library. It defaults to B<-xmit> when neither B<-xmit> nor
B<-iebcopy> is given.

Each I<member> may be a bare load module (e.g. F<.lm>) or a single-member
B<-iebcopy> image. A bare member carries no PDS2 directory metadata: the module
length is recomputed from its CESD, but the entry point, the APF authorization
code (B<AC>) and the B<RENT>/B<REUS>/B<REFR>/... attributes live only in the
directory and cannot be recovered --- entry is assumed 0, the rest defaulted. A
single-member B<-iebcopy> is B<self-describing>: its whole directory entry is
carried through (only the relocated text TTR is re-stamped), so the entry point,
length, AC and attributes all survive. B<Pack any member that needs a non-zero
entry, a non-zero AC or non-default attributes from its> B<-iebcopy>, not its
bare F<.lm>.

A member's name comes from its F<.iebcopy> directory, or (for a bare member) the
file's basename with the extension stripped and uppercased. Override either with
I<NAME>=I<FILE>; a bare member whose basename is not a valid MVS member name
B<must> be named this way.

=item B<-v>

Verbose: trace the link / pack phases on stderr.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cc370(1)>, L<as370(1)>, L<ar370(1)>, L<file370(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

The mvslovers community L<https://github.com/mvslovers/cc370>.

=cut
